# For Maintainers
## Overview
The meeting-registration-form repo is an application running on the free platform Heroku which handles/includes web forms, a PostgreSQL database, a Python program, and some ancillary files needed to describe the app to Heroku.

### Web pages
The main one is `index.html`, which is the form people use to register. `success.html` is displayed after a successful registration. `participants.html` describes the table used to display minimal participant information for public viewing: first name, last name and affiliation.

### Python program
`registration_server.py` describes the database structure (a single table named participants), creates the table when invoked with `--create`  (see `app.json` for such an invocation) and defines other functions; I have yet to figure out how to invoke them.

### Dependencies
..are described in `Pipfile` in a general way; `Pipfile.lock` contains detailed information about exactly which versions of everything were used.  Under normal circumstances, the ones in the repo can be used as is, with no changes.

However if you *do* have to change the version of something, manually change it only in `Pipfile`. It’s possible to deploy an app with just `Pipfile`; Heroku will generate a suitable `Pipfile.lock`, but for predictability this is not normally the way one should operate.  By generating `Pipfile.lock` yourself you guarantee that the same precise versions are used every time, until you want to change them.   `Pipfile.lock` can be generated by the utility `pipenv` (which, I must admit, I couldn’t manage to use. Instead I copied a `Pipfile.lock` generated by someone else who could.)

## Updating the meeting-registration-form Repo

### Use a fork
Since it’s very unlikely you’ll get everything right the first time (or even that you’ll know exactly what you want initially), fork the production repository, e.g. under your personal github space, and work on the fork until everything is ready for production.

In order to be able to test everything thoroughly on your fork, you should set up github.io:
1. create a repository in your space named your-github-name.github.io. My github name is JoanneBogart so the full path to mine is `JoanneBogart/JoanneBogart.github.io`. This repo needs a README.md file but nothing else.
2. In the github web interface
* go to your fork of meeting-registration-form
* click **Settings** (along the top)
* click **Pages** (in the list to the left, under **Options**)
* the drop-down menu under **Source** should say **None**. Choose the branch (either master or main) which will be the source. And you’re done.

### First deploy
You can pretty much follow the instructions in README.md, but I suggest first creating your Heroku account, then starting over from the README page to do the actual deploy (I’m not positive but I think when I tried to continue immediately after creating my account the page I saw didn’t match the description in the README. But the next time around, with my account already created, it did.)

If the deploy is successful, click **Manage app**, then **Settings**, and finally click **Reveal Config Vars**. There are two: DATABASE_URL and SECRET_KEY. Copy and save the values for both. DATABASE_URL at least should be saved in a protected place (no read access for anyone else). These values don’t change if you need to redeploy the application. They of course do change if you delete the application and start over with the same name.

### Useful URLs
Let SERVER_URL be
`https://APPNAME.herokuapp.com` where APPNAME is the value you typed in the App name field. Then the URL people will use to register*, as stated in README.md, is

`https://lsstdesc.github.io/meeting-registration-form/index.html?backend=SERVER_URL&secret=SECRET_KEY`

where SECRET_KEY is the value of the SECRET_KEY config variable.

To see a summary of registered participants to date, use SERVER_URL

**NOTE:** For your fork the registration URL will be a little different. `lsstdesc.github.io` will instead be `your-github-user.github.io`.   If your forked repo is not named meeting-registration-form, that part of the URL will also have to change.


### Querying the database
Connect to the database using DATABASE_URL.   It’s in sqlachemy format:

    `postgres://user:password@host:port/dbname`

If you use sqlalchemy to connect, depending on version you might need to change the initial `postgres` to `postgresql`.   Then make a file, e.g. `database.ini`, consisting just of that string. Change protection on the file so only you can read it. François made a notebook using this connection method which will dump the contents of the database.

In theory you should be able to use the components of DATABASE_URL to log in with other client programs, such as psql, but I wasn’t able to make it work.

### Redeploy
1. Install the Heroku CLI.   There are various ways to do this.  For my (mac) laptop I downloaded the tarball, unpacked, and set my path to include the bin directory so that the heroku command could be found.

2. Do
    `$ heroku login`
This will open a browser window so you can log in to your Heroku account.  You may be asked to set up 2-factor authentication.

3. There are many useful commands.  See the [doc](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli-commands)

For example, list all your apps with
  `$ heroku apps`

To find out more about a particular app called “my-app-name”
  `$ heroku apps:info -a my-app-name`

4. If there isn’t already a copy of the git repo, clone one.

5. From within your clone, do
  `$ heroku git:remote -a my-app-name`
Your repo now has a new remote named heroku.

6. To redeploy at any time, just do
`$ git push heroku master`
(or push main if that is the production branch of the repo. This only works with branches main and master)

Note that redeploying will not change SERVER_URL, SECRET_KEY, or DATABASE_URL. It also will not touch the database. If the database structure has changed either
* you should instead delete the app and start over. This is fine if you’re not yet in production.
* you need to fix the database by hand somehow. There are various Heroku commands starting with the string `heroku pg:` which might be useful. For example you can create backups, restore them, and open a psql session.
